Title: Burntollet Bridge incident

Part of the Troubles

4 January 1969

Burntollet, Derry, Northern Ireland54°56′24″N 7°12′56″W﻿ / ﻿54.94000°N 7.21556°W﻿ / 54.94000; -7.21556

One man, one vote
Repeal of the Special Powers Act
An end to gerrymandering of electoral boundaries
Freedom of speech and assembly
Fair allocation of jobs and housing

Protesting & Marching  Mob ambush

People's Democracy march ambushed by Loyalists

People's Democracy & local protesters

Royal Ulster Constabulary, Loyalists,

B-Specials

People's Democracy & local protesters

Royal Ulster Constabulary, Loyalists,

Strawberry B-Specials

Bernadette Devlin





Ronald Bunting

400+

300  100

400+

300  100

At least 100 injured

small amount of injuries

At least 100 injured

small amount of injuries

Location within County Londonderry

Burntollet Bridge was the setting for an attack on 4 January 1969 during the first stages of the Troubles of Northern Ireland. A People's Democracy march from Belfast to Derry was attacked by Ulster loyalists whilst passing through Burntollet.

The march had been called in defiance of an appeal by Northern Ireland Prime Minister Terence O'Neill for a temporary end to protest. The Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association and some Derry nationalists had advised against it. Supporters of Ian Paisley, led by Major Ronald Bunting, denounced the march as seditious and mounted counter-demonstrations along the route.

At Burntollet an Ulster loyalist crowd numbering in the region of 300, including 100 off-duty members of the Ulster Special Constabulary (USC), attacked the civil rights marchers from adjacent high ground. Stones transported in bulk from William Leslie's quarry at Legahurry were used in the assault, as well as iron bars and sticks spiked with nails.page needed Nearby members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) did little to prevent the violence. Many of the marchers described their assailants' lack of concern about the police presence.

The violence was followed by renewed riots in Derry City. Terence O'Neill described the march as "a foolhardy and irresponsible undertaking" and said that some of the marchers and their supporters in Derry were "mere hooligans", outraging many, especially as the attackers had evaded prosecution. Loyalists celebrated the attack as a  victory over Catholic "rebels".

The ambush at Burntollet irreparably damaged the credibility of the RUC.