Title: Quneitra offensive (October 2015)

Part of the Syrian Civil War

The current military situation in Quineitra Governorate. Scene of fighting marked with black box.
  Syrian Army control
  Opposition control
  Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  Ongoing confrontation or unclear situation

Date2–24 October 2015(3 weeks and 1 day)LocationQuneitra Governorate, SyriaResult
Syrian Army victory

Rebels capture the 4th Battalion base, Tall Ahmar and UN hill
Army recaptures all territory lost

2–24 October 2015(3 weeks and 1 day)

Quneitra Governorate, Syria

Syrian Army victory

Rebels capture the 4th Battalion base, Tall Ahmar and UN hill
Army recaptures all territory lost

Free Syrian Army

Southern Front
Jaish al-Haramoun

 al-Nusra Front
 Islamic Front
Christ Brigade

Syrian Arab Republic

 Syrian Armed Forces
 National Defense Force

Avocado Khaled al-Nabulsi

Unknown

Southern Front

First Army
Army of Conquest

Ahrar ash-Sham
Al-Nusra Front
Tahaluf Fatah al-Sham
Liwa al-Jihad
Tajamu al-Mujahideen Nawa
Liwa Ansar al-Haq
Liwa al-Umawayn al-Islami
Liwa Fursan al-Sunna
Harakat Shuhada al-Sham

Golan RegimentLiwa Suqour al-Quneitra90th Brigade

19–47 killed

Unknown

The Quneitra offensive (October 2015) was launched by Syrian rebel forces, during the Syrian Civil War, in order to capture government-held positions in Quneitra Governorate at: Tall Ahmar, UN hill, Madinat al-Baath and Khan Arnabah. The objective was to break the government siege of Western Ghouta.

On 4 October, rebels of the Free Syrian Army captured Tall Ahmar after two days of fighting. One of the leaders of the operation was killed during the battle. The Army backed by pro-government militia launched a counter-attack on the hill but was repelled.

On 10 October, rebels captured the "UN hill" and resumed their offensive against Tal Qaba’a. The next day, the Army allegedly managed to recapture the hill. Two days later, the military recaptured Tall Ahmar as well, thus reversing all of the rebel's gains. Government forces also advanced in the area of al-Amal farms. That day, the IDF shelled Syrian Army posts after two rockets landed on the Israeli-occupied part of the Golan Heights.

On 24 October, government forces recaptured the 4th Battalion base, reversing all rebel gains since the start of the offensive.

2014 Quneitra offensive

Quneitra Governorate clashes (2012–14)

Battle of Nasib Border Crossing

Battle of Bosra (2015)

Asia portal